first commit -- all article rmds (#1)
tidymodels/cloudstart: 05_case_study.Rmd

  mutate_if(is.character, as.factor) 

dim(hotels)
glimpse(hotels)
```

Let's look at proportions of hotel stays that include children and/or babies:

```{r}
hotels %>% 
  count(children) %>% 
  mutate(prop = n/sum(n))
```

## [A first model: penalized logistic regression](https://www.tidymodels.org/start/case-study/#first-model)

 Recall [Evaluate your model with resampling](/start/resampling/#data-split) article for data splitting?
 
 Let's reserve 25% of the stays to the test set:
 
```{r}
set.seed(123)
splits      <- initial_split(hotels, strata = children)

hotel_other <- training(splits)
hotel_test  <- testing(splits)

# training set proportions by children
hotel_other %>% 
  count(children) %>% 
  mutate(prop = n/sum(n))

# test set proportions by children
hotel_test  %>% 
  count(children) %>% 
  mutate(prop = n/sum(n))
```

Now let's reserve another 20% of the `hotel_other` for our validation set.

```{r}
set.seed(234)
val_set <- validation_split(hotel_other, 
                            strata = children, 
                            prop = 0.80)
val_set
```
 

### Build the model

Let's specify a penalized logistic regression model using the lasso method.

> Note that we define `penalty=tune()` so we can tune it in the next steps, and set `mixture=1` so we are using the lasso method. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that we define `penalty = tune()` so we can tune it in the next steps, and set `mixture=1` so we are using the lasso method. 
```

Author: changed to
```
Note that we define `penalty = tune()` so we can tune it in the next steps, and since we are using lasso method, we set `mixture = 1`.
```

```{r}
lr_mod <- 
  logistic_reg(penalty = tune(), mixture = 1) %>% 
  set_engine("glmnet")
```

For more details try typing `?logistic_reg` on the console.

### Create the recipe 

> Remember second article [Preprocess your data with recipes](https://www.tidymodels.org/start/recipes)?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remember the second article [Preprocess your data with recipes](https://www.tidymodels.org/start/recipes)?
```

Let's preprocess the data by creating a recipe:

```{r}
holidays <- c("AllSouls", "AshWednesday", "ChristmasEve", "Easter", 
              "ChristmasDay", "GoodFriday", "NewYearsDay", "PalmSunday")

lr_recipe <- 
  recipe(children ~ ., data = hotel_other) %>% 
  step_date(arrival_date) %>% 
  step_holiday(arrival_date, holidays = holidays) %>% 
  step_rm(arrival_date) %>% 
  step_dummy(all_nominal(), -all_outcomes()) %>% 
  step_zv(all_predictors()) %>% 
  step_normalize(all_predictors())
```

### Create the workflow

Let's bundle the model and recipe into a single `workflow()`:

```{r}
lr_workflow <- 
  workflow() %>% 
  add_model(lr_mod) %>% 
  add_recipe(lr_recipe)
```

### Create the grid for tuning

> Do you recall previous article [Tune model parameters](https://www.tidymodels.org/start/tuning)?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can now tune our model, similar to what is shown in the previous article [Tune model parameters](https://www.tidymodels.org/start/tuning).
```

Let's create a grid with 30 values for the hyperparameter we would like to tune:

```{r}
lr_reg_grid <- tibble(penalty = 10^seq(-4, -1, length.out = 30))

lr_reg_grid %>% top_n(-5) # lowest penalty values
lr_reg_grid %>% top_n(5)  # highest penalty values
```

### Train and tune the model

Let's train all these logistic regression models with 30 different hyperparameter values.

> We also provide the validation set `val_set`, so model diagnostics will be available after the fit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We provide the validation set `val_set`, so model diagnostics computed on `val_set` will be available after the fit.
```

  lr_workflow %>% 
  tune_grid(val_set,
            grid = lr_reg_grid,
            control = control_grid(save_pred = TRUE),
            metrics = metric_set(roc_auc))

lr_res
```

Now visualize the validation set metrics by plotting the area under the ROC curve against the range of penalty values: 

```{r}
lr_plot <- 
  lr_res %>% 
  collect_metrics() %>% 
  ggplot(aes(x = penalty, y = mean)) + 
  geom_point() + 
  geom_line() + 
  ylab("Area under the ROC Curve") +
  scale_x_log10(labels = scales::label_number())

lr_plot 
```

Get the best values for this hyperparameter:

```{r}
top_models <-
  lr_res %>% 
  show_best("roc_auc", n = 15) %>% 
  arrange(penalty) 
top_models
```

Let's pick candidate model 12 with a penalty value of `0.00137`:

```{r}
lr_best <- 
  lr_res %>% 
  collect_metrics() %>% 
  arrange(penalty) %>% 
  slice(12)
lr_best
```

And visualize the validation set ROC curve:

```{r}
lr_auc <- 
  lr_res %>% 
  collect_predictions(parameters = lr_best) %>% 
  roc_curve(children, .pred_children) %>% 
  mutate(model = "Logistic Regression")

autoplot(lr_auc)
```

## [A second model: tree-based ensemble](https://www.tidymodels.org/start/case-study/#second-model)

> Let's try to improve our prediction performance by using random forest model type, which we already explored in [Evaluate your model with resampling](https://www.tidymodels.org/start/resampling/) article. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's try to improve our prediction performance by using a random forest model (model *type*), which we also explored in the [Evaluate your model with resampling](https://www.tidymodels.org/start/resampling/) article. 
```

Check number of cores to work with:

```{r}
cores <- parallel::detectCores()
cores
```

Set model specification and provide number of cores for parallelization while tuning.

```{r}
rf_mod <- 
  rand_forest(mtry = tune(), min_n = tune(), trees = 1000) %>% 
  set_engine("ranger", num.threads = cores) %>% 
  set_mode("classification")
```

### Create the recipe and workflow

Let's create the recipe for the model.

```{r}
rf_recipe <- 
  recipe(children ~ ., data = hotel_other) %>% 
  step_date(arrival_date) %>% 
  step_holiday(arrival_date) %>% 
  step_rm(arrival_date) 
```

Then bundle it with the model specification:

```{r}
rf_workflow <- 
  workflow() %>% 
  add_model(rf_mod) %>% 
  add_recipe(rf_recipe)
```

### Train and tune the model

When we set up our parsnip model, we chose two hyperparameters for tuning:

```{r, message=FALSE}
rf_mod

# show what will be tuned
rf_mod %>%    
  parameters()  
```

We will use a space-filling design to tune, with 25 candidate models: 

> ```{r, cache = TRUE}

Reviewer 2: another cache chunk (see Julia's note below)

```{r rf-best}
rf_best <- 
  rf_res %>% 
  select_best(metric = "roc_auc")
rf_best
```

Collect predictions for the best model:
Note that we simply provide our best model's parameter values `rf_best` to subset it from a whole list of tuned models.

```{r}
rf_res %>% 
  collect_predictions()

rf_auc <- 
  rf_res %>% 
  collect_predictions(parameters = rf_best) %>% 
  roc_curve(children, .pred_children) %>% 
  mutate(model = "Random Forest")
```

Now, we can compare the validation set ROC curves for our top penalized logistic regression model and random forest model: 
```{r}
bind_rows(rf_auc, lr_auc) %>% 
  ggplot(aes(x = 1 - specificity, y = sensitivity, col = model)) + 
  geom_path(lwd = 1.5, alpha = 0.8) +
  geom_abline(lty = 3) + 
  coord_equal() + 
  scale_color_viridis_d(option = "plasma", end = .6)
```

The random forest is uniformly better across event probability thresholds. 

## [The last fit](https://www.tidymodels.org/start/case-study/#last-fit)

Let's evaluate the model performance one last time with the held-out test set.
We'll start by building our parsnip model object again from scratch with our best hyperparameter values from our random forest model:

> ```{r, cache=TRUE}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```{r, cache=TRUE}
```
Caching isn't important in this context, correct? Let's remove for reading clarity.

# the last model
last_rf_mod <- 
  rand_forest(mtry = 8, min_n = 7, trees = 1000) %>% 
  set_engine("ranger", num.threads = cores, importance = "impurity") %>% 
  set_mode("classification")

# the last workflow
last_rf_workflow <- 
  rf_workflow %>% 
  update_model(last_rf_mod)

# the last fit
set.seed(345)
last_rf_fit <- 
  last_rf_workflow %>% 
  last_fit(splits)

last_rf_fit
```

> Note that we added a new argument `importance = "impurity"` to `set_engine` to get variable importance scores. To see other options, type `?ranger` in console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that we added a new argument `importance = "impurity"` to `set_engine` to get variable importance scores. This is an optional, engine-specific argument. To see its documentation, you need to read the documentation for the underlying `ranger()` function. To see it and other options, type `?ranger` in console.
```

---
title: "A predictive modeling case study"
output: 
  html_document:
    toc: true
---

```{r setup, include=FALSE}
knitr::opts_chunk$set(echo = TRUE, message = FALSE, warning = FALSE)
options(tibble.print_min = 5)
```

Get started with building a model in this R Markdown document that accompanies [A predictive modeling case study](https://www.tidymodels.org/start/case-study/) tidymodels start article.

> If you ever get lost, you can click on the header of the knitted document to see the accompanying section in the online article.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you ever get lost, you can click on the section headers to see the accompanying section in the online article.
```
